In this lecture, you'll learn about SDM software defined networking before I explain what Estienne
is, we need to review the planes on our Ersin and switches back the data control and management planes.
The data plane can also be known as the forwarding plane.
That's where traffic is forwarded through the debate.
So if, for example, you're sitting in the office and you open up a Web page out on the Internet and
traffic, the pockets are going through the router, then those pockets are passing through the airplane.
So any normal production traffic, which is which is forwarding through its interfaces, that is going
through the data plane, the next plane that we've got is the control plane.
The control plane makes decisions about how to forward traffic control plane pockets, such as routing
political updates or free or spinning to updates earlier to our destined to or locally originated on
the device itself.
So if, for example, we've got a couple of drivers are one and are two and they're sharing NPF updates
with each other, well, when our one advertises I wrote to our two pocket originates on our one and
then it's dashed into our two.
So unlike the pocket's in the data plane which are passing through, there are pockets in the control
plane originate from on Terminix, on the voters or the switches.
Finally, we have got the management plane.
The device is configured and monitored in the management plane, for example.
If you're connecting to that or switch to manage it through Telnet or MSH, you're working in the management
plane.
You could also be managing it via a guey using a yes or via S&P or an API application programming interface.
OK, so those are our three planes.
Network infrastructure devices, your viewers and switches are responsible for their own individual
control on their planes in a traditional environment, so all the pockets are passing through or a switch
or switch that is responsible for forwarding them in the plane and also, again, using SPF as the example
in the control plane.
Each individual writer is responsible for updating its own routing table, which is how it makes was
forwarding decisions with software defined networking.
It breaks with the traditional model.
So we've dealt with the end.
It decouples the data and control planes rather than having bovver data and control planes running individually,
one at a time when each of our network devices with the and the control plane is moved off to a centralized
SDM controller.
So the network infrastructure devices are still responsible for forwarding traffic.
So they're still controlling their own data plane.
But the control plane intelligence moves to a centralized SD and controller.
Rules for pocket handling are sent to the network infrastructure devices from the controller and the
network infrastructure devices queeny controller for guidance as needed, and we provide it with information
about traffic that they are handling.
We can run again either as a pure Estienne or as a hybrid SDM with a pure Estienne control plane runs
purely on the city and controller, and the plane runs purely on the network devices with a hybrid ESTIENNE.
The majority of control plane intelligence is again provided by the SDM controller, but the network
devices retain some control plane intelligence as well as with the airplane operations.
And most implementations, including used by Cisco, use a hybrid ESTIENNE because it can be more efficient
and higher performance that way.
OK, so let's look at the Estienne architecture, the information on this slide.
You definitely want to know for Vishniac.
So what's the architecture?
Everything is from the point of view of the controller.
So we'll start there.
That is the controller.
We've got our SDM controller, which provides the network services.
Then it's going to be managing our network devices are our switches, et cetera.
They are living in the infrastructure layer, which in the hierarchy is going to be below the control
there with the ESTIENNE.
And because everything in architecture is from the point of view, the Estienne controller and the network
devices are below it in the hierarchy, then we're going to be using southbound APIs from the controller
to control the network devices.
The APIs could be using open flu, which was one of the earlier SDM protocols.
It's open source otherways that the controller can control the devices is via S&P Arrest API, Netcom,
Rascon or S.H. just depends on the particular implementation which will be used.
Often controllers can use different protocols and they will use whichever one is supported by the particular
device they are managing.
We also have the application layer.
That's where we have our Estienne business applications because this is above the controller in the
hierarchy.
From the controllers point of view, it's going to be communicating with that with northbound APIs,
northbound APIs are typically going to be using rest.
OK, so let's have a look at this actually in action so you can visualize it.
So I'll go back to my SWC example again.
If an Amazon Web Services, I'm going to be provisioning a virtual machine there.
At this point, I've already configured all my settings.
I'm just on the review page now.
And you can see here that in this Web based front end, I've configured my network settings.
I want my virtual machine here.
So I've specified the network subnet, if I want to have it, want it to have a public IP address.
I've also specified my firewall rules here as well.
So this is the front end that the user is going to be interacting with me when I'm provisioning my virtual
machine.
And from here we need to get the server configured.
So I need to have the operating system installed.
Also, I need to have all my network infrastructure devices.
So I've configured all my settings in here looking at our hierarchical model.
This is the application where this is my front end as the end business application.
I fill in for information there and then when I click the button to actually provisioned the virtual
machine, the northbound APIs using Rasht are going to communicate with the SDM controller and then
it's a SDM controller, which is actually going to push the configuration to my network devices below
there, because that's how it's typically going to work.
You're going to have a front end user or the administrator is going to be interacting with the application
layer.
It uses a rest API to communicate with the controller and then the controller will use it, Sigfried
APIs to actually push the config to the devices.
They finally let's look at what the controllers are available from Cisco.
First up, we've got the APIC, which stands for Application Policy Infrastructure Controller, and
the APEC is the main component of Cisco Asiye, which stands for application centric infrastructure.
APEC is designed to manage, they are saying, our environments with nexus switches.
So when you're in an I.T. environment, typically it's the asset.
Nerva is going to have your higher end devices in there.
That's what all your services are located.
You want to have high performance there.
And because of this, the data center is often the first place that new technologies are going to be
implemented.
And that was the case with Cisco Estienne.
So if you had a Cisco based datacenter, you were using Nexus switches where you were able or you still
are able to control that with the using the Cisco APIC.
After the epic was released that's been available for several years, the next one that was available
was the epic Yelm.
The Epic M stands for application policy infrastructure controller enterprise module.
So where are the APIC is designed for use in data center environments and it controls Nexus switches.
The APM is designed to manage enterprise environments, but your campus, your branch on the WAN.
Now, the APM has actually been upgraded recently to the DNA center, the DNA center.
It's got most of the same features and functions that the EPIC yammered.
The APM has not going to end of life yet.
As I am recording this, it will do some time through because DNA Center is new, even new version of
APIC Yelm.
The APIC used in data center environment is not covered in the Shishani exam, but DNA Center for Your
Enterprise Environments is so.
In the next lecture, we'll be looking in more detail at DNA Center.